1. What is Jenkins?
2. what versions of Jenkins you are using?
3. What are your resposiblities in git, Jenkins
A. GIT
   1. Enable branching strategies live dev, qa, preprod and preprod
   2. Managing git repositories using various git commands like pull push merge clone branch rebase etc
   3. Managing git user access like giving access to specific repositories, specific branches 
   Jenkins
   1. Jenkins we are using to create our CI/CD jobs
   2. Master slave configurations
   3. Managing CI/CD jobs
   4. Managing Jenkins Pulgins
   5. Integrating other DevOps tools like git, Maven, Ansible,etc
   Ansible
   1. Setting up the access
   2. Writing Playbooks and roles
   3. Managing Ansible hosts
   Docker
   1. Setup Docker environment
   2. Writing Dockerfiles
   3. Creating custom images
   4. Setting up private Docker registry
   5. creating and managing container 















-------------------------------------------------------
 grep and grep-i (case insensitive)  , grep ril recurssive - case insensituve and l to print file name, grep <text> * to search in multiple files, grep -w (to search exact text), grep -v(which does not match the pattern)

 sort -n for numeric
 for gbs -h

 gzip
 unzip
 tar-cvzf(filename.tar.gz) filename

	export GIT_SSL_NO_VERIFY=1
    git config --global http.proxy http://10.8.0.1:8080



Jenkins role
How to create users, manage and assign roles
 go to manage jenkins -- manage users-- create users
 create 3 users one for developer, tester and admin
 so inorder to restrict the above users based on their roles for that we need a plugin - role-based Authorization, 
 once you install and restart Jenkins, you can go to global security you can see one option role based strategy
 once you select and save it, the ablove users will not be able to login to Jenkins
 Now you need to go manage and assign roles, so under global roles we can select the read level previlages and under project related roles we can select the role to add (say Developer) and pattern (Dev* -i.e., the project which are starting woth Dev will get the access) and then we can select the access required
 Now we need to assign some users for this roles which we have created
 and now we can add under the assign roles and add the users which we have created also we need to add the item roles and select whether the user is Developer or tester














    AWS DevOps KT

In terms of ECS environments look like
we have 3 environment for data fabric
1. Dev
2. Non Prod
3. Prod

Each environment is have two clusters. 
1. df-nonprod-ops-cluster - this run the traefik service (Traefik is an layer that sits in between the Kong and the services. Why it is there is because it keeps an inventory of the services and the tasks). it is a service discovery mess. it keeps its full attempt to AWS API.It ask ecs cluster where the docker container is running what port it is running. What is the service name the it belongs to and how to reach it so that i can send the request to that IP or that port. So that is running a separate cluster. So it is a cluster to cluster communication.
There is only one service running in this cluster - stage-com-data-fabrics-ops-traefik-http

2. df-nonprod-cluster - We have over 200 service running here. the naming convention is it starts with stage. followed by lr/cr/ld/cd -(ladbrokes retail,digital, coral retail, digital). we also have gvc this is generic




if we go to bitbucket and login to any service (say customer login), we can see the file manifest.jason. this specifies the name container details, memory reservations, cpu , port {tpye="lrs" means long running service} and some more details.

this basically means that each task in the specific service needs to have a dedicated memory of 1024 MB, 256 units of CPU.
Ans it would br listening to the port 8080. this means this is the container port. it is not the host port (basically ec2 machine server is the host and the container port will map to the ec2 port.)










